All things must end...

And so it goes without saying that we should not expect to come through this epic tale without the weight of existence bearing down upon us. Through Kaji we celebrate the stoic and prevailing strength of ideals, the resonance of a resilient conscience and voice for truth and compassion. Described by a Japanese villager as a ''Paragon of virtue'', Kaji's quest to reunite with his love Michiko is an all conquering force that echoes right past the films final frame.

This final chapter sees Kaji leading his remaining followers, and other Japanese soldiers he meets along the way through dense forest, fighting for survival against Russian troops and Chinese militia and avoiding enemy capture, ultimately leading to imprisonment in a Russian POW camp. It's here where he finds things have come full circle from the labour manager position he once held to the harsh conditions of Soviet communist ideals that no longer mirror the ones he had placed faith in. A riveting scene involving impassioned pleas to a room of Russian officials, which is constantly misconstrued by an unreliable translator is simply heartbreaking, as is the treatment of his comrades by Japanese fascists in the very same camp.

Some astounding cinematography was noticeable in this chapter, with the application of Dutch tilts to enhance many key scenes including hunger and violence, some freeze frames used in an early battle sequence would also be used in Samurai Rebellion years later, whilst reflections in rivers and the use of shadows in the POW camp added a rich texture to the visual aesthetic, which is enhanced further by the dramatic score. This film belongs to Tatsuya Nakadai as Kaji, which is surely one of the most committed performances in all of Japanese cinema. The gravity of every trial and tribulation is felt through his eyes and performance, and the film would not be the powerful statement it is without his talent.

So after enduring 10 hours of psychological exhaustion through the examination of 'The Human Condition', I can in no way deny that this is the greatest cinematic achievement I have ever experienced. Masaki Kobayashi is a bold visionary and auteur that I can only compare to Stanley Kubrick, and whilst I adore his other films and consider them perfection, this film is his crowning achievement.

Welcome to the No#1 position on my All-time favourite film list!